feat(http): Replace usage of "payload" with "content" (#35063)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/http_content/index.md

---

> title: Content

Reviewer: Should it be "HTTP Content"?

slug: Glossary/HTTP_Content
page-type: glossary-definition
---

{{GlossarySidebar}}

> In HTTP, **content** describes the 'information part' of data sent after the header section when message framing has been removed (like chunked transfer encoding in HTTP/1.1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In HTTP messages, **content** describes the 'information part' of data sent after the header section when message framing has been removed (like chunked transfer encoding in HTTP/1.1).
```

> In HTTP, **content** describes the 'information part' of data sent after the header section when message framing has been removed (like chunked transfer encoding in HTTP/1.1).

Reviewer: Note " (like chunked transfer encoding in HTTP/1.1)." doesn't mean anything to me, so is it helpful?

> This was defined as a "payload" in HTTP/1.1, but this has been replaced with "content" to avoid confusion with frame payloads in HTTP/2 and HTTP/3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This part of the message was previously called the "payload" in HTTP/1.1 specifications, but is now referred as "content" in order to avoid confusion with frame payloads in HTTP/2 and HTTP/3.
```

> In HTTP, **content** describes the 'information part' of data sent after the header section when message framing has been removed (like chunked transfer encoding in HTTP/1.1).
> This was defined as a "payload" in HTTP/1.1, but this has been replaced with "content" to avoid confusion with frame payloads in HTTP/2 and HTTP/3.

Reviewer: OK, so just to be clear, my understanding is that an HTTP message consists of a bunch of headers and a body. That body contains data, which is more than just "information" - for example in the transfer chunked thingy you're including chunk information. 

So the payload/content is the actual information that would be used by the recipient with any extra framing etc removed. This include metadata in the `trailer` header but not message framing. Is there anything other than message framing that might have to be removed?

So in your examples below the content is "Mozilla Developer Network"

on that basis maybe

```suggestion
In HTTP messages, the **content** describes the 'information' conveyed in the data sent after the header section ("message body"), after any message framing from HTTP/1.1 chunked transfer encoding has been removed.
This was referred to as the message "payload" in the HTTP/1.1 specification, but is now defined as "content" to avoid confusion with the term "frame payloads" in HTTP/2 and HTTP/3.
```
